<html>
<head><title>cryptlib</title></head>

<body background="img/backgrou.gif" bgcolor="#C0C0C0" text="#000000" link="#0044AA" vlink="#000000">

<center>
<img src="img/title.gif" alt="cryptlib logo"><p>

cryptlib is a powerful security toolkit that allows even inexperienced crypto
programmers to easily add encryption and authentication services to their
software.  The high-level interface provides anyone with the ability to add
strong security capabilities to an application in as little as half an hour,
without needing to know any of the low-level details that make the encryption
or authentication work.  Because of this, cryptlib dramatically reduces the
cost involved in adding security to new or existing applications.<p>

At the highest level, cryptlib provides implementations of complete security
services such as S/MIME and PGP/OpenPGP secure enveloping, SSL/TLS and SSH
secure sessions, CA services such as CMP, SCEP, RTCS, and OCSP, and other
security operations such as secure timestamping.  Since cryptlib uses
industry-standard X.509, S/MIME, PGP/OpenPGP, and SSH/SSL/TLS data formats,
the resulting encrypted or signed data can be easily transported to other
systems and processed there, and cryptlib itself runs on virtually any
operating system - cryptlib doesn't tie you to a single system.  This allows
email, files, and EDI transactions to be authenticated with digital signatures
and encrypted in an industry-standard format.<p>

cryptlib provides an extensive range of other capabilities including full
X.509/PKIX certificate handling (all X.509 versions from X.509v1 to X.509v3)
with additional support for SET, Microsoft AuthentiCode, Identrus, SigG,
S/MIME, SSL, and Qualified certificates, PKCS #7 certificate chains, handling
of certification requests and CRLs including automated checking of
certificates against CRLs and online checking using RTCS and OCSP, and issuing
and revoking certificates using CMP and SCEP.  In addition cryptlib implements
a full range of certification authority (CA) functions, as well as providing
complete CMP, SCEP, RTCS, and OCSP server implementations to handle online
certificate enrolment/issue/revocation and certificate status checking.
Alongside the certificate handling, cryptlib provides a sophisticated key
storage interface that allows the use of a wide range of key database types
ranging from PKCS #11 devices, PKCS #15 key files, and PGP/OpenPGP key rings
through to commercial-grade RDBMS' and LDAP directories with optional SSL
protection.<p>

In addition to its built-in capabilities, cryptlib can make use of the crypto
capabilities of a variety of external crypto devices such as hardware crypto
accelerators, Fortezza cards, PKCS #11 devices, hardware security modules
(HSMs), and crypto smart cards.  For particularly demanding applications
cryptlib can be used with a variety of crypto devices that have received
appropriate FIPS 140 or ITSEC/Common Criteria certification.  The crypto
device interface also provides a convenient general-purpose plug-in capability
for adding new functionality that will be automatically used by cryptlib.<p>

cryptlib is supplied as source code for BeOS, DOS, IBM MVS, Macintosh/OS X, 
OS/2, Tandem, a variety of Unix versions (including AIX, Digital Unix, DGUX, 
FreeBSD/NetBSD/OpenBSD, HP-UX, IRIX, Linux, MP-RAS, OSF/1, QNX, SCO/UnixWare, 
Solaris, SunOS, Ultrix, and UTS4), VM/CMS, Windows 3.x, Windows 95/98/ME, 
Windows CE/PocketPC/SmartPhone and Windows NT/2000/XP/Vista/7.  cryptlib's 
highly portable nature means that it is also being used in a variety of custom 
embedded system environments including AMX, ChorusOS, eCos, FreeRTOS/OpenRTOS, 
uITRON, MQX, PalmOS, RTEMS, ThreadX, T-Kernel, uC/OS II, VDK, VxWorks, and 
XMK.  In addition, cryptlib is available as a standard Windows DLL and an 
ActiveX control.  Language bindings are available for C / C++, C# / .NET, 
Delphi, Java, Python, and Visual Basic (VB).<p>

Please click on the topics to the left for more information.<p>

For a more extensive overview of cryptlib's capabilities as well as information
on <a href="http://www.cryptlib.com" target=_top>commercial use</a>, there is a
<a href="http://www.cryptlib.com/cryptlib_brochure(Jan07).pdf">cryptlib 
brochure</a> available in 
<a href="http://www.adobe.com/prodindex/acrobat/readstep.html">Adobe Acrobat
</a> format.<p>

<p>
cryptlib contains contributions from various open-source developers, see the
acknowledgements section of the manual for details.
</p>

</center>

</body>
</html>
